The Hero Twins of The Hero Twins Myth are two of Maya mythology's most famous characters. Popol Vuh narrated their story in Maya texts. It was believed that the  Characters resembling the Hero Twins could be found in the mythology of a number of other Native American cultures and even the gods of the sky appointed the Hero Twins as rulers of the Earth. 

One twin turned into the Moon, while the other into the Sun. The Hero Twins resurrected their father and transformed him into the Maize God. The Maya rulers were said to be the descendants of the Hero Twins.

Many Mayan pyramids and cities continue to be discovered with fascinating facts!

The Europeans destroyed Maya-written books.

As children, they had bizarre beauty routines such as deforming their skulls into an elongated shape.

Mayans can still be found today, mostly in Guatemala.
Other Mesoamerican cultures, like the Teotihuacan, the Aztec, and many others, traded with the Maya civilization at that time. Furthermore, they engaged in trade and exchanges with more distant, non-Mesoamerican groups, such as the Tanos. Gold and other valuables were discovered by archaeologists while exploring Panama in Chichen Itza's Sacred Cenote. Cacao, salt, seashells, jade, and obsidian were all important trade items.
The Mayan are best known nowadays for their various pyramids. They raised enormous pyramids to their divine beings that towered hundreds of feet over the wilderness. They were skilled in maths, craftsmanship, engineering, and space science. The dominance of corn, the construction of pyramids, human sacrifice, jaguar-worship, the complex calendar, and many of the gods can all be traced back to this period.

The monuments of most interest are often considered to be the stepped pyramids. These pyramids were constructed inside religious centres, as well as the accompanying rulers' palaces. The  Cancuén palace is the biggest construction in the Mayan region, even though there are no pyramids there.

Inca architecture was unique and beautiful, just like other Inca arts. Their clothes often carried architectural motifs. Cusco, Peru's capital city, is a prime example. Engineers from the Inca Empire built Machu Picchu.

Machu Picchu was built during the 1450s, when the Inca Empire was at its peak. Machu Picchu was an Inca Empire city. It is sometimes referred to as the "lost city" because the Spanish never discovered it after conquering the Incas in the 1500s. A royal estate was constructed for the ninth Inca King, named Machu Picchu. According to one theory, it was the king's vacation retreat.

Here Are Some Inca Facts Worth Knowing
The Incas used a system of coloured and knotted strings called quipu for records, maths, and possibly even language.

They had faith in reincarnation.

They used advanced agricultural methods, such as canals and ditches, to irrigate their crops.
Political and administrative structure of the Maya Civilization

The Maya civilization lived in several countries throughout the 2500-2000 years before being garrisoned by the Spaniards as of 1519. Irrelevant in the depths of Near Eastern bad luck, the Spanish presence in Southwest America changed the cultural landscape and helped accelerate the shift towards Capitalism in society. 

Grouping into powerful city-states was something the Maya did. There are many Maya Cities that rose to power, called El Mirador, TIKAY, Uxmal, Caracol and Chichen Itza, all of whom made a name for themselves in the Haysem Kingdom and beyond.

The centre of South America where the Maya lived was southern Mexico and less than 3000m north of the river border of El Salvador and Elindrola--better known locally as northern El Mexico. They combined multiple different types of stone solutions in many cities--dramatically filled with great stone structures.
The Incas believed in rebirth. Like in many other religions, Death was a pathway to the next life. Camaquen, the soul of the departed, would have to travel a long and dark path with the help of a dog that had the ability to see even in the darkest of places. 

They believe in an afterlife as a heaven full of flowers and snow-covered mountains. Those who followed the Inca moral code (avoid theft, lying, and laziness) went to live in a warm place full of sunshine, akin to heaven, while others were banished for eternity in hell (a cold, dark and lonely place).
The Inca empire began in the 1400s but was centred in Peru, ruling over much of South America's west coast. Prior to the arrival of the Europeans, the Inca and Maya civilizations were the most dominant and advanced civilizations in the Americas.

The Incas had a complex government and road system that enabled them to create a society with jobs, food, and housing. They also had a large population of nearly 10 million people. The Inca were distinct from the others in that they were a well-organized empire and a peaceful people. 

Their final decline was the conquest of their land and people by the Spanish in 1533, although by this time, they were already in disarray due to a raging civil war and disease.

The Inca Empire was the most powerful empire in pre-Columbian America. The civilization arose in the 13th century and lasted until 1572, when it was conquered by the Spanish. Cusco (also spelled Cuzco) in modern-day Peru was the empire's administrative, political, and military centre.